[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> A hunting season for Bigfoot?
One Oklahoma lawmaker
has proposed just that.
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Oklahoma State Representative
Justin Humphrey has filed
legislation that would establish
a Bigfoot hunting season
in the state.
The bill would work with
Oklahoma Wildlife Conservation
Division to establish the dates
of season, licensing, and fees.
Humphreys is also hoping
to establish a $25,000
bounty for anyone who captures
the creature, adding he doesn't
want anyone to kill Bigfoot
but rather the license
would specify trapping only.
Humphrey said in a statement,
quote, "Establishing
an actual hunting season
and issuing licenses
for people who want
to hunt Bigfoot
will just draw more people
to our already beautiful part
of the state.
It will be a great way for
people to enjoy our area
and to have some fun."
Jim Meyers,
researcher and curator
of the Sasquatch Outpost in
Bailey, Colorado, disagrees.
>> I understand why he's doing
it to bring tourism in, but I
think it's a bad idea.
One, he says it's not with
the goal to shoot Bigfoot,
it's the goal to trap them.
I don't think
that'll ever happen.
I don't think they'll
ever trap a Bigfoot.
Whether you say trap
or shoot, if you
say it's a hunting license,
every redneck in Oklahoma
is going to get out
there with his rifle
and try and shoot Bigfoot.
And the problem with that is
there's no other game that you
can hunt in Oklahoma that
looks like a man like Bigfoot
does, and I anticipate
hunters being
killed by a mistaken identity.
The other is I believe
Bigfoot is a type of person,
and I think they're
inviting people
to kill, basically, a hominid.
>> What do you know about them
that makes you think Sasquatch
are a type of person?
>> One, because
of their behavior.
They act like people.
They don't act like gorillas.
Their intelligence
level is as high as ours
or maybe even higher.
There has been DNA
study done on them
which proves that
they're a human hybrid.
And every Native American
tribe that I've talked to
believes that they
are another tribe.
They're just different
kind of people than we are.
>> There's evidence that Native
tribes have come in contact
with Sasquatch around the world.
What can we learn from them?
>> There's a few examples.
One, the most notable one being
in northern California, where
there's an 8-foot
pictograph in a cave,
along with a smaller one,
and then a very small one.
And they-- it looks
like a Sasquatch.
But the Native
Americans, every tribe
has their own name
for Sasquatch.
They have their own
tradition, oral and otherwise.
They leave Sasquatch alone.
They expect Sasquatch
to leave them alone.
But they're people.
Every name I've ever heard,
Native American name,
is a name you would
give to people,
not a name you would
give to animals.
>> Jim has had at least one
run-in with a Sasquatch.
>> I think it was 2014 was
the first physical sighting,
but I'd had other close
encounters before then.
And I expect I'll have another
sighting sooner or later,
just because the longer you
do this, the more likely
it is that you're going
to be recognized by them
and that they're going
to show themself to you,
because I tend to go back to
the same places regularly.
>> And if he came face to
face with a live Sasquatch?
>> I hope I would have the
presence of mind to talk to it.
I would want to know if
it would speak back to me
or in some way try to
communicate with me, whether it
be by sign language.
I would love to learn
some sign language in some
of the local Native
American languages,
Navajo, Lakota Sioux, again,
just to see would it--
would reply in kind?
Would it sign back
to me or speak to me?
What I know I want to do is
not take my eyes off of it,
because as soon as you take your
eyes off of it, they're gone.
>> And what does Jim think will
happen with the Oklahoma bill?
>> I predict that the Oklahoma
House of Representatives is
going to throw it out because
most of those guys are
certainly not going to
believe that Bigfoot is real.
They're not going
to pass a bill,
you know, I just don't
see them doing that.
>> If this hominid creature
has lived for hundreds or even
thousands of years
without being captured,
doesn't it make sense that
they don't want to be seen?
Surely, catching a Sasquatch
would be an amazing discovery
for science.
But does that outweigh their
right to be left in peace?
One thing is
certain, humans will
keep trying to find
the elusive creature.
But at least one expert thinks
they will never be caught.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.